RPC Server (#1449)
zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi: WalletWasabi.Documentation/RPC.md

# Wasabi Remote Procedure Call interface

Wasabi wallet provides an RPC interface to interact with the wallet programatically. The RPC server is listing by default on port 18099.

## Limitations

> The RPC server does NOT support batch requests nor TLS communication (because it is not supported on Linux nor Mac: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/14691). Requests are served in order one by one in serie (no parallel processing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RPC server does NOT support neither batch requests nor TLS communications (because they are not supported on Linux and on Mac: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/14691). Requests are served in order one by one in series (no parallel processing).
```

Author: No, in this case TLS is not supported. The request batching is just not implemented.

Reviewer: Check again please, I updated that.

> It is intentionally limited to serve to only one whitelisted local address and comes disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is intentionally limited to serve only one whitelisted local address and it is disabled by default.
```

```

**Note**: error codes are generic and not wasabi specific.

## gethistory

Returns the list of all transactions sent and received.

```bash
curl -s --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"1","method":"gethistory"}' http:/127.0.0.1:18099
```

```json
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": [
    {
      "datetime": "2019-10-01T12:31:57+00:00",
      "height": 597871,
      "amount": -2110090,
      "label": "David",
      "tx": "680d8940145f53cf2a0c24b27ba0bb53fbd639011eba3d23c9d53123ddae5f32"
    },
    {
      "datetime": "2019-10-04T17:00:15+00:00",
      "height": 597872,
      "amount": -2120000,
      "label": "Pablo",
      "tx": "e5e4486ad2c9fc6f3c262c4c64fa5fbcc607aa301182d45848a6692c5a0d0fc0"
    },
    {
      "datetime": "2019-09-22T11:59:32+00:00",
      "height": 5965600,
      "amount": 44480000,
      "label": "Coinbase",
      "tx": "6a2e99298dbbd201230a99e62ea584d7f63f62ad1de7166f24eb2e24867f6faf"
    },
```

## listkeys

Returns the list of all the generated keys.

```bash
curl --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"1","method":"listkeys"}' http://127.0.0.1:18099/
```

```json
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": [

>     [{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
```

      "fullKeyPath": "84'/0'/0'/0/1",
      "internal": false,
      "keyState": 1,
      "label": "Adam",
      "p2wpkhScript": "0 09f4ef9a012844a875222fb08fba86219d181b63",
      "pubkey": "03d02d5985dd48880edccc992b6d77584e7b68ad9b099b8e33d60a703ac0cbded7",
      "pubKeyHash": "09f4ef9a012844a875222fb08fba86219d181b63"
    },
    {
      "fullKeyPath": "84'/0'/0'/0/2",
      "internal": false,
      "keyState": 1,
      "label": "Valeria",
      "p2wpkhScript": "0 cceac198896736d15281b499dea4d49687d2ccf5",
      "pubkey": "0203741debe056d1513940f36d0b16a49185c1780ac8f5b91e713d5a66fbc84025",
      "pubKeyHash": "cceac198896736d15281b499dea4d49687d2ccf5"
    },
    {
      "fullKeyPath": "84'/0'/0'/1/2",
      "internal": true,
      "keyState": 1,
      "label": "Bernardo",
      "p2wpkhScript": "0 7242d77e2da9d3474190e465ed50f6b30b3cf2e9",
      "pubkey": "03f31132f80ebdf480ad2aaf15631e9b643734ab78701012ba621b113c23ecab26",
      "pubKeyHash": "7242d77e2da9d3474190e465ed50f6b30b3cf2e9"
    }
  ],
  "id": "1"
}
```

> ## enqueue / dequeue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Enqueue coins in order to participate in coinjoin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### enqueue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## enqueue
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Enqueues coins in order to participate in a CoinJoin.

```

```bash
curl -s --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"1","method":"enqueue", "params": { "coins": [{"transactionId": "ba70587b37ba8b4de143929994d3b8ee2810340cef23e8016020687716117a52", "index":"12"}]} }' http://127.0.0.1:18099/
```

> ### dequeue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## dequeue
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Dequeues coins that were queued to participate in a CoinJoin.

```

Author: I changed the structure.

```bash
curl -s --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"1","method":"dequeue", "params": { "coins": [{"transactionId": "ba70587b37ba8b4de143929994d3b8ee2810340cef23e8016020687716117a52", "index":"12"}]} }' http://127.0.0.1:18099/
```

## stop

> Stops and exit Wasabi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stops and exits Wasabi.
```

```bash
curl -s --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0", "method":"stop"}' http://127.0.0.1:18099/
```

------

## Errors

### Method not found

```bash

> $ curl -s --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"1","method":"howknows"}' http://127.0.0.1:18099/

Reviewer: Add  ``` after this line.

Author: no, it is not what i want to achieve.

> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```json
{
```

Author: no, the idea is to display what happens with a real command line example.

# Wasabi Remote Procedure Call interface

Wasabi Wallet provides an RPC interface to interact with the wallet programmatically. The RPC server is listening by default on port 18099.

## Limitations

The RPC server does NOT support batch requests nor TLS communication (because it is not supported on Linux nor Mac: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/14691). Requests are served in order one by one in serie (no parallel processing).
It is intentionally limited to serve only one whitelisted local address and it is disabled by default.

# Before start (Enable RPC)

The RPC server has to be configured and enabled. This is done in the `Config.json` file and the relevant settings are:

* JsonRpcServerEnabled: [true | false]  (default: false)
* JsonRpcServerPrefixes: [an array of string with prefixes]
	(default: [	"http://127.0.0.1:18099/", "http://localhost:18099/"])

# Authentication

> The RPC server can be configured to allow `Anonymous` access or `Basic  authentication` just by editing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RPC server can be configured to allow `Anonymous` access or `Basic  authentication` just by editing:
```

> * JsonRpcUser: [the username]  (default: empty)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JsonRpcUser: [username] (default: empty)
```

> * JsonRpcPassword: [the password]  (default: empty)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JsonRpcPassword: [password] (default: empty)
```

> By default both `JsonRpcUser` and `JsonRpcPassword` are empty (`""`) that that means that `Anonymous` requests are allowd. On the other hand, if `JsonRpcUser` and `JsonRpcPassword` setting are not empty it means that the requester has to provide the right credential, otherwise it will get a http statuc code 401 (Unauthorized).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default both `JsonRpcUser` and `JsonRpcPassword` are empty `""`, which means that `Anonymous` requests are allowed. On the other hand, if `JsonRpcUser` and `JsonRpcPassword` are not empty it means that the requester has to provide the right credentials, otherwise he will get a http status code 401 (Unauthorized).
```

> #

Reviewer: These 3 lines should be removed I think.

Author: yes.

> # Methods available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Available methods
```

> Current version only handles the following method `listunspentcoins`, `getstatus`, `getwalletinfo`, `getnewaddress`, `enqueue`, `dequeue`, `send`, `listkeys` and `stop`. These can can be tested as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current version only handles the following methods: `listunspentcoins`, `getstatus`, `getwalletinfo`, `getnewaddress`, `enqueue`, `dequeue`, `send`, `listkeys` and `stop`. They can be tested as follows:
```

## getstatus

> Returns information useful to understand the real status wasabi and its synchronization status.

Reviewer: `the real status wasabi` what does this mean?

Author: I don't know what `real` means here.

```bash
curl -s --data-binary '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"1","method":"getstatus"}' http://127.0.0.1:18099/
```
```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "torStatus": "Running",
    "backendStatus": "Connected",
    "bestBlockchainHeight": "1517613",

>     "bestBlockchainHash": "0000000000000064db138798b6b789910bc7f29546a1ff506734dc7bb5780b

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "bestBlockchainHash": "0000000000000064db138798b6b789910bc7f29546a1ff506734dc7bb5780b28",
```

> 28",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
